Preface
=======

The Odoo online book covers the implementation best practices and
approach to configure the business applications out-of-the-box. With
this approach you can configure your Odoo online instance or Odoo.sh or
locally installed Odoo on your server.

Book covers
-----------

.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 2

  ../crm/index.rst
  ../sales/index.rst
  ../accounting/index.rst
  ../inventory/index.rst
  ../purchase/index.rst
  ../ecommerce/index.rst
  ../point-of-sale/index.rst
  ../project/index.rst
  ../manufacturing/index.rst
  ../human-resource/index.rst
  ../website/index.rst

Page structure
--------------

Each single page on this book have the real time business case and how
that business can be configure with Odoo standard features. The page
divides in the specific sections, each sections give you enough
information to solve the business problem. The major sections as below.

Problem statement
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The page has a single line problem statement such as “”, give you brief
information about the business situation, where it uses and which
business requires to deal with such situation. Most of the problem
statement are “how to ..” questions.

Business case
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This section gives you a real-life business case.

Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This sections give you a step-by-step configuration, that help you to
fit the real-life business problem in Odoo using the standard features.

Execute the business case
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The section after the configuration has its own relevant titles, that
give you stapes explain you how to execute the business case, what are
the document you have to create in order to test the business
configuration.

Video
~~~~~

This section gives you a link on the PDF or embedded videos on the
online book, that shows you the detailed configuration steps and the
steps to execute the business case.

See also
~~~~~~~~

This section has the useful links to the related business cases.

Conversations
-------------

There are different text styles, that used to differentiate the
informations, like **Bold text** used to name any screen label, menus,
or static information available on the screen while *Italic text* always
represents the value.

Images are used to illustrate the confirmation or result, you can
understand the topics explain about the which business features and
configuration.

Tips
~~~~

Tips related to the trick configuration or business steps.

Note
~~~~

An additional note related to the topics.

Warning
~~~~~~~

You may try with at the loss of performance or losing some features.

Danger
~~~~~~

You should not try this as it may break the system, and my possible you
can not get it repair.
